there are 11 steps to caring for your
ornamental banana step 4 temperature
bananas prefer warm humid temperatures
for maximum growth they grow fastest
when the daytime highs are 80 degrees
Fahrenheit to 95 degrees Fahrenheit
growth will slow drastically below 57
degrees Fahrenheit the tops of the
plants will die back to the ground when
it freezes step 5 water bananas are
native to tropical areas of the world
and are adapted to steady amounts of
rain over a long season they generally
do not do well in areas with a
pronounced dry season three months or
more without irrigation pronounced rod
will retard growth and will result in
leaves that burn along the edges so for
best results the general rule of thumb
is water your bananas often and deeply
in a garden site that has good deep
soils that means once or twice per week
in a container water every two to four
days step six winned bananas are
unusually sensitive to strong winds the
large leaves are easily damaged by wind
or by hail the leaves tend to rip or
shred along the minor veins from the
edge of the leaf inward to the midrib
this greatly detracts from the beauty of
the plant and exposes the sensitive
fruit to sunburn eventually the damaged
leaves will be replaced by new leaves
win stronger than 30 miles per hour will
damage leaves winds above 40 miles per
hour may cause the stem to break and
topple the plant this will not kill the
plant but it will ruin any chances for
flower or fruit that year if a storm
topples your plant the best thing to do
is to cut the stem below the point of
failure new leaves will emerge from the
cut end in just a few days staking the
plant may help prevent stem topple
during storms banana should be protected
from high winds by planting them in a
site protected by a windbreak such as a
building or a hedge for more information
on this topic check out our website at
plant delights calm